---
layout: post
title:  "Getting started with eBPF on Golang"
comments: true
draft: true
aliases: [/dnspot-c2-framework]
date:   2021-12-01 10:24:00
tags:
- security
description: "Getting started with eBPF on Golang"
images:
- /img/dockersecurity/wreckedship.jpg
categories:
- security
- linux
--- 

Even since eBPF's release, I've been meaning to get my hands dirty with it. eBPF let you run code inside the kernel. But unlike other solutions that do that, kernel modules and dkim, there's no way you can crash the kernel with an eBPF code. In essence, eBPF is just an extention on top of previously-known BPF. 

If you've worked with `tcpdump` before, you're probably already familiar with tcpdump filters. Those filters are a language that directly trasnlate to BPF bytecodes  (todo:link to tcpdump filters here)

Suppose you've just logged into a reasonably "lean"system that doesn't have a ton of RAM and HDD. you'd like to see what your DNS packets will look like. You can easily run a tcpdump with `port 53` as a BPF and you'll only capture and see the packets coming with port 53 as their port.  Note that this is very different than capturing traffic with Wireshark. and that's the beauty of BPF.


So this way the user space doesn't see you there in entirety of the packets and the filter works on kernel level so dad a small use your space program can deal with the small amount of data that is being received from the kernel in this scenario only packs with TCP or UDP 53 will be moved forward and same logic is applied in EPF EPF allows the kernel to run a set of commands are instead of filters that will bring back the results that you need to rats and you bring everything from the kernel space to user space and try to do the filtering and try to do the logic fear you provide a set of logic to the kernel your coat Ron into kernel and you get a shared map between a kernel space and user space to act as it data bus and when you receive the data you're already halfway through with your logic and business analytics that way you will have a much more lenient way of gathering metrics game in packets and gathering secured inside inside your kernel and keep in mind with this logic you will have full access to everything inside the current where as in users beach criminals base relationship without UPS you wouldn't have access to see groups you wouldn't have necessarily access to containers etc etc and even if you do you're always risk functionality of the kernel because you don't you have no idea how big or how small dose that will be

# different flavours (bcc bpftrace cilium auqa cloudflare)

# The hello world referance 

# why did I choose the bpf2go approach (static binary portablity etc)

# looking forward to generics in go 1.18
